
We're on Twitter! Follow The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association (JAOA) on Twitter at @TheJAOA for updates, highlights, and conversations about the JAOA and osteopathic medical research.Take note of the special report on the AOA's Strategic Research Plan by JAOA Editorial Advisory Board member Brian F. Degenhardt, DO.Get to know our submission guidelines.

As a peer reviewer for the JAOA, it is important to be familiar with not only the peer review process, but also with The Journal's submission expectations. Before conducting your review, be sure you are conversant with the JAOA's Information for Authors page on JAOA.org. The next time you review an article for the JAOA, remember:
• Contributors to the JAOA follow this “Manuscript Checklist."
• The JAOA's contributors must adhere to these 10 manuscript components. 
• Word count, reference, and graphic element requirements are specified for each article category.  a graphic element.
• Original contributions, meta-analyses, systematic reviews, and brief reports require structured abstracts.
• References should follow standard medical citation formatting.
Take Our Online Poll
When I review for the JAOA, I refer to the JAOA Instructions for Authors…

a) frequently b) occasionally c) never 
Let us know!Resources to Reference
<li>International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) Guidelines</li>
<li>AMA Manual of Style (10th edition): A Guide for Authors and Editors</li>
<li>JAOA Guidelines for Peer Reviewers</li>
<li>JAOA staff</li>
Additional resources you would find helpful? Other helpful tips for peer reviewers or authors? Let us know—we want to hear from you!MEET YOUR PEER
Thomas Wesley Allen, DO, MPH
Occupation
Osteopathic physician, former dean of the College of Osteopathic Medicine at Oklahoma State University, former editor in chief of the JAOA
School/class
Midwestern University/Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine, Class of 1964
I am involved with the JAOA because… 
The Journal is the profession's flagship publication and brings to its readers the latest information in osteopathic research and clinical practice.
When reviewing a manuscript ...
I always consider whether the hypothesis is clear, the methods well summarized, and the conclusion succinct. I consider the significance of the research question and the originality of the research. I also ask myself the following questions: Do the writing style and structure of the paper clearly convey the research? Are ethical considerations addressed? Will the abstract encourage the audience to read the full study? It is essential, of course, to provide specific suggestions to the author when it would be helpful in improving the paper.
An official publication of the American Osteopathic Association
www.osteopathic.org/JAOA
Questions? Concerns? Contact circulation@osteopathic.org • (312) 202-8176 • 142 E. Ontario St., Chicago, IL 60611


	
JAOA Peer Reviewer – Fall Edition
Patrick will change the banner to reflect the correct edition & season. Patrick will add the spotlight feature photo, as well as professionalize the poll question.

